Two Weeks Before the Perseus's Departure
What's up with this, Senku?
This wheat's all soggy.
And it's sprouted.
And that's totally fine.
And then we dry it over a fire.
Even though you just soaked it?
What are you even trying to do?
Knead it well and get rid of the hulls.
And then beat the heck out of it!
And then mix it in hot water and filter.
All done. Wheat juice.
Toss in some of Japan's own hops,
Humulus lupulus, and boil.
And then we just let the
mighty yeast do their thing.
It'll ferment on its own and become alcohol.
The yeast will even carbonate it for us.
Beer is rather impressive, is it not?
They even paid pyramid builders
with beer back in ancient Egypt.
It's perfect after heavy labor.
You're right.
It's fantastic!
Aren't you having any, Senku?
I'll pass.
Nah, I'm not the only one.
The ship will sink if everyone
gets drunk at the same time.
There's always gonna be
a few who avoid drinking.
I can't drink alcohol.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
All right, then.
But so long as you're on my ship, when it's
time to have fun, you're going to have fun.
I won't allow a single exception!
Francois!
Understood.
I shall mix a special soft drink cocktail
for each of those who will not be imbibing.
Isn't that a bit extreme?
It's just a shipboard minibar!
You can count on Francois
to take it to the extreme.
Let me know if you need anything.
Yeah, the science team will take care of it!
Thank you kindly.
In that case, since you offered...
Gum syrup?
We're making it out of wheat.
The stuff you get in the water when
you wash wheat flour is starch.
We'll add a dash of sulfuric
acid as a secret ingredient.
It's our friend Ryu-san again.
Sulfuric acid?! In a drink?!
How are you even supposed to drink that?!
It'll melt your teeth if you drink it straight.
That's why we're boiling it good.
I knew it. We're going to use
chemistry to detoxify it, right?
You gotta slow down, Gen.
And then we add barium carbonate.
Even more poison?!
I mean, it's just the name that
makes it sound bad, right?
Think about it. There's no way
we'd be using legit poison.
No, it's legit poison.
Why?!
Just shut up already.
We've been making sugar and stuff with this.
Mix it well, check the pH,
and filter it, and it's harmless.
That's how science works.
Don't try this if you don't know
what you're doing. You'll die.
And now we have gum syrup.
Sweet!
Are you warming milk?
It's not much hotter than bath water.
Is that hot enough?
That's the trick.
It turned into yogurt stuff!
Filtered yogurt, gum syrup,
and lemon together make...
m 0 0 l 226 0 l 226 80 l 0 80
Lactic drink
acquired!!
Please enjoy.
I-I've never had anything like this!
It's super sweet and just a little bit sour.
It's so good!
I tried adding apple juice to a lactic drink.
Apple flavor. Good idea.
It even has a cucumber garnish.
It's so cute with the Suika mask.
It's not just a garnish.
Try dropping it into the glass once
you've finished about half of it.
It changed into watermelon flavor!
It's really refreshing!
That's so strange.
How did apple turn into watermelon?
Ah, so that's what happens when you mix
gourd family plants with fruit juice.
Your pure smile, like the sunshine,
reacts with your mask
and offers a different charm.
Lactic drink... 45ml
Apple juice... 30ml
Cucumber (grated)
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h... a bit
Cucumber ... a bit
A cocktail for Suika-sama, the 2Side Sunshine.
I've seen bartenders in movies
throw drinks like that.
There must be some scientific reason
for how you mix drinks, right?
You think so?
None whatsoever.
There isn't?!
It's called flair.
It serves the vital purpose of treating the
guest's eyes in addition to their palates.
Francois is a real master
of the art of hospitality.
A cocktail for Tsukasa-sama.
Grenadine (pomegranate)
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\hSyrup... 20ml
Tonic water
\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h\h...30ml
The red of the pomegranate under
the light of science, the black light,
changes like the gentle flame
inside Tsukasa-sama's heart.
It changed blue!
It's glowing...
So pretty.
Not bad.
It's delicious.
For Gen-sama, a grown-up kick
under a simple exterior.
Cola... 120ml
Chai syrup
...1-2 teaspoons
Lemon... 1 slice
Chili pepper... a pinch
Spicy grown-up cola!
For you, Kohaku-sama.
Spicy Cinderella
Ginger ale... 60ml
Orange juice... 20ml
Pineapple juice... 30ml
Lemon juice... 5ml
Grated ginger... 1 scoop
Humanity is a force to be reckoned with.
All the drinks that can be made
with just natural ingredients...
Although, everything in this world is natural.
And this cocktail is for Senku-sama.
Three-layer Tea Latte
Whipped matcha... 30ml
Milk... 50ml
Hojicha tea... 20ml
Gum syrup... 2 teaspoons
From the top, whipped matcha,
milk, and hojicha syrup.
The layering represents the
way science builds on itself.
I don't care, as long as it's a drink.
You mind if I stir this now?
I thought you might ask that.
With your elegant mixing,
the many efforts of science
will mix into a mildly sweet latte.
Come on, drink with us, Matsukaze.
Tell 'em all those stories about your past.
Your master, was it?
Tell him how awesome I used to be.
That wasn't you, Ginro.
My master had a strong
spirit until the very end.
There was no warning.
When it rained down...
Perhaps it had someone's voice,
or perhaps it finally heard our curses...
It didn't take long for us to understand
how the wicked weapon works.
Should these land in the hands of bandits,
the island will fall prey to crime!
Find them all and destroy them!
Master!
Matsukaze...
There's no saving me now.
Master...
Enough of that nonsense.
I've been thinking...
Why did the heavens spread the
petrification weapon among the people?
At first, I thought it was divine punishment.
But it's strange...
If the goal was to petrify everyone,
it would have only taken one device.
And why are they made to be
so easy for us humans to use?
It's almost as though they intended for us
to use the devices against each other.
That's what upsets me the most.
I want the heavens to suffer for it, Matsukaze.
I want them to see that we
humans aren't that foolish.
That they're underestimating us.
My fate is inescapable.
I must make sure future generations
know of the source of this evil.
I'm aware that the sin of failing
to protect my master is not one
that can be erased by defeating Why Man.
Still, I...
Matcha Beer
Beer... 200ml
Matcha... 1 teaspoon
Beer with matcha.
The bitterness of adulthood will, with time,
elevate itself into a mellow flavor.
Please enjoy.
He's a lightweight!
I...
I must become stronger.
Yes.
Tsukasa-dono, I'd like to borrow your chest!
Sure.
Tsukasa-dono...
Tsukasa-dono!
Forgive me! I was intoxicated
and stepped out of line.
Actually...
I was thinking you need some training, as well.
Are we really waking him up, too?
We have a gun with us now.
Besides, Tsukasa's here.
We can keep him under control.
He's not stupid enough to get any weird ideas
when the whole of humanity is on the line.
You're the battle specialist.
If you think you need him,
it's your decision, Tsukasa.
Fighting is my job, and he's the most
qualified for training in that department.
We need your help, Hyoga.
With training in modern martial arts,
Matsukaze will improve dramatically.
I have just one condition.
What's that?
Do you want to be pardoned for
offing Tsukasa and the rest?
I don't need that.
I would never be granted such a thing after
the judicial institutions are revived.
My condition is two revivals.
Give me the right to revive two people.
Hyoga-sama.
What was it...
Owari Kanryu-style spear techniques?
Maybe I'll give this "practice" thing
a try for the first time in my life.
No, there's something else to do first.
You're right, there is.
There are some cute girls here.
We need to get closer to them first.
Moz-kun, I expect you to be proper.
Kinro! Kinro!
Man, I hate that stuff.
How are you supposed to even go
near them? It's so dangerous.
So, er...
Did you know, Kinro?
Bitter defeats eventually become
a mellow something-or-other.
What are you talking about?
Francois said something like that.
I see.
Kinro, what's that?
I know not!
Ow!
Ryusui Theater
The Early Middle Ages.
The northern seas were ruled by us, the Vikings!
With their impressive sailing skills,
they arrived in the Americas
500 years before Columbus.
The Americas
Amazing, isn't it?
How did they manage it so long ago?
No fair!
Why can they get around so easily?!
It's not as though there are signs on the seas!
The sun is the only sign on the seas.
But the skies aren't always clear.
The Vikings sure are strange.
That's why there's a legend that came about:
that the Vikings must have had a stone
that would reveal the position of the sun
under any condition—a sunstone.
In any case,
it was exceedingly hard to determine
your heading and position on the high seas.
So it's exceedingly hard, and we're supposedly
taking the hardest route there, aren't we?
It's easy now.
Thanks to the great marvel of science
called GPS, we know exactly where we are.
About that...
How are we using GPS in this stone world?
We coordinate with Ruri and
the others who stayed in Japan.
What is this?
Look at all these hourglasses!
We use sundials and hourglasses
to transmit the time in Japan
as accurately as possible to the ship.
Transmit?!
It's really happening!
Chrome's true feelings from far beyond the sea!
What are you even talking about?
We're stupidly far away.
How are we supposed to talk to them?
Then how do we...
We can't talk, but we can just
barely receive shortwave signals.
So we have them send us time signals every hour.
Like that.
It's 10:00 AM over there.
As long as we know what hour it is,
I can count the seconds just fine.
Oh, yeah. I forgot you're a
human stopwatch, Senku-chan.
I don't know how we can tell where
we are from what time it is, though.
Don't worry.
The modern grown-ups don't quite get it, either.
The sun's at its highest point right now.
The ship's right at 12:00.
From the time difference to Tokyo,
we get our horizontal position.
From the height of the sun,
we get our vertical position.
In other words, the Perseus is currently...
here!
I don't get how it works,
but I got the last part.
We can definitely know where we are if we
know our horizontal and vertical position!
Traveling with science is awesome.
We know everything as long
as we can see the sun!
Yup.
As long as we have clear skies,
it's smooth sailing all the way to the States.
Just as soon as you say that. Yeesh...
I mean... Senku-chan's the guy who put
100 skill points in Intelligence,
Grit, and Willpower
and zero in Luck when he was born.
There's no way we can see
the sun through all this.
Which means we'll just have to rely on
my sailor's instincts during the day.
We'll lose a lot of time if this keeps
up for more than a few days.
We're going to be lost at sea without the sun.
If only we had the sunstone from
the story about the Vikings...
That's it!
The new rock we got from the skarn deposit,
nature's treasure chest.
Kohaku, could you use your gorilla
power to chisel it out cleanly?
Is there a pretty gem in there or something?
I'm more than happy to help
if we're sending it to Ruri-nee.
I guess... it's pretty, but...
It's just a whitish rock.
That's what I thought at first, too.
But see, when you look at things through it...
It looks a bit off.
You can see it twice!
That is a fascinating rock...
But I don't know if Ruri-nee
would appreciate it.
Why are we even talking about that?
Anything cool has a chance of turning
out to be something awesome someday.
So I check everything.
That's the way of the science user!
Look. See?
You can see the mark twice through the rock.
Is this the sun here?
You can't see it at all through the clouds.
Yeah, that's fine.
When you point it at the sun
at just the right angle...
Look, it lined up!
The two marks show up the exact same tone.
Not that I know why.
Which means...
That's right.
You can see the sun over
there through the clouds!
m 0 0 l 210 0 l 210 80 l 0 80
"Sunstone"
acquired!!
Calcite!
Calcite is a natural prism.
It splits light into two.
So when these line up, that's where the sun is?
Yeah, that's more or less the idea.
I've heard about something like that.
When they investigate Viking
shipwrecks at the bottom of the sea,
they come across a surprising amount of calcite.
It's always been a mystery why the
Vikings were carrying it around.
Maybe it was neither magic
nor a legend, but a real thing.
The sunstone.
Correct!
And four thousand years later,
we sail to the Americas,
just like the Vikings did!
Once again, with the immutable power of science!
What are we making with science next?
Land!
F-Finally!
We made it!
We've arrived at the Americas!
Next Episode
Light Trap in the Darkness
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.